Bartik, Alexander, Zoë B. Cullen, Edward L. Glaeser, Michael Luca, Christopher Stanton, and Adi Sunderam. "The Targeting and Impact of Paycheck Protection Program Loans to Small Businesses." (pdf) Harvard Business School Working Paper, No. 21-021, August 2020. 

What happens when public resources are allocated by private actors, whose objectives may be imperfectly aligned with public goals? We study this question in the context of the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP), which relied on private banks to rapidly disburse aid to small businesses. We present a model suggesting that such delegation is optimal if delay is very costly, the variance of the impact of funds across firms is small, and the correlation between public and private objectives is high. We then use firm-level data to measure heterogeneity in the impact of PPP and to assess whether banks targeted loans to high-impact firms. Using an instrumental variables approach, we find that PPP loans increased business’s expected survival rates by approximately 10 to 20 percentage points and modestly boosted employment. While banks did target loans to their pre-existing customers, treatment effect heterogeneity is sufficiently moderate and the correlation between bank and public objectives seems sufficiently strong that delegation was likely a superior option compared to the high cost of delaying loans to improve targeting

Bartik, Alexander, Zoë Cullen, Edward L. Glaeser, Michael Luca, and Christopher Stanton. "What Jobs Are Being Done at Home During the COVID-19 Crisis? Evidence from Firm-Level Surveys." (pdf) Harvard Business School Working Paper, No. 20-138, June 2020. 

The threat of COVID-19 has increased the health risks of going to an office or factory, leading more workers to do their jobs remotely. In this paper, we provide results from firm surveys on both small and large businesses on the prevalence and productivity of remote work, and expectations about the persistence of remote work once the COVID-19 crisis ends. We present four main findings. First, while overall levels of remote work are high, there is considerable variation across industries. The Dingel and Neiman (2020) measure of suitability for remote work does a remarkably good job of predicting the industry level patterns of remote work—highlighting the challenge of moving many industries to remote work. Second, remote work is much more common in industries with better educated and better paid workers. Third, in our larger survey, employers think that there has been less productivity loss from remote working in better educated and higher paid industries. Fourth, more than one-third of firms that had employees switch to remote work believe that that remote work will remain more common at their company even after the COVID-19 crisis ends.






Estimating Demand for Workers with a Criminal Record (with Will Dobbie and Mitch Hoffman) 

State and local policies increasingly restrict employers’ access to criminal records, but withoutaddressing the underlying reasons that employers may conduct criminal background checks.Employers may thus still want to ask about a job applicant’s criminal record later in the hiringprocess or make inaccurate judgments based on an applicant’s demographic characteristics.In this paper, we use a field experiment conducted in partnership with a nationwide staffingplatform to test policies that more directly address the reasons that employers may conductcriminal background checks. The experiment asked hiring managers at nearly a thousand U.S.businesses to make actual hiring decisions under different randomized conditions. We find that39% of businesses in our sample are willing to work with individuals with a criminal record atbaseline, which rises to over 50% when businesses are offered crime and safety insurance, a singleperformance review, a background check covering just the past year, or objective informationon the productivity of these individuals. Wage subsidies can achieve similar increases but ata substantially higher cost. Based on our findings, the staffing platform relaxed the criminalbackground check requirement and offered crime and safety insurance to interested businesses.
